All people are inherently harmony seekers, not matter what nationality, race, or religion they subscribe to. It is something that has been imbibed in the very definition of a mammal with strong social powers. If, for most of the time, we could surround ourselves with people who we never hesitated to talk to about anything, we would slowly get accustomed to opening up about our feelings. Think about a child being brought up in such a system. You could imagine this child being surrounded by broadminded and nonchalant members of his family; and having more exposure to a sub-part of the society that is both chivalrous and considerate, than the dissonant part of it which is the home to most of the working class families. You would ideally relate this child with the common traits of the one who hails from a family of means. ‘What are these traits?’ one may ask. The answer to that is a huge list prepared by some psychologist who has spent years researching on this subject, but relevant to the present context, I know of one trait that would definitely comprise this list. And that trait is ‘opening up about one’s feelings’. The reason why I am correlating family background with the trait of someone opening up about one’s feelings, is because there is a striking similarity between- the number of ears that would be willing to listen to your feelings if you were a ten year old being raised in a supportive and wealthy family; and the number of ears willing to do the same if you were a twenty year old with a harmonious social circle comprising of people who share similar views and values as yours, regardless of your net worth. One may also be compelled to ask ‘what does a wealthy family has to do in the example of the ten year old?’ To be concise, the idea of wealth here is portrayed simply as a factor that mitigates the probability of a child facing several situations where pecuniary problems of the family hinder the process of attentive parenting. So, to an adult, it ultimately comes down to the question of being perceptible by the social group they are a part of. If the answer to that question is affirmative, one would see that such an adult would have no problem expressing their concerns to the people around them. This quality gradually solidifies into a strong verbal or written communication skill with the passage of time. Now, the following may hit you as a revelation but there is indeed a place where you can express any of your thoughts, no matter what attributes they hold, and you can be sure that someone, somewhere, is going to respond to them. We call that place, ‘the social media’. Indeed, in a way the social media satisfies our carving of being heard, especially dating back to our childhood.A perfect example of this phenomenon will be a kid in my neighborhood that I had as a teenager. We barely saw each other, but I was aware of the suppressions he had to face by his parents. He was raised rather to be more disciplined than expressive. If you were to walk up to him and ask him how he spent his holidays, he would tell you that he spent most of his free time listening to his parents talking about household concerns, and playing videogames. Years later, this child grew up to become an atheist and often posted on Facebook about how disgusted he was about the traditional beliefs held by the majority about God, and stuff like that. Something had changed. It had nothing to do with maturity because not everybody develops a power of expression as they grow up. This kid had his prolonged exposure to videogames shift to social networking. As he built his connection with more people who shared his views, his confidence grew better. With approval from around five people on quotidian basis, he was able to reflect on the area he was interested in.The conclusion at the end is that if, as an adult, you have the right kind of people around who are sure to constantly approve your views and rectify your flaws, you have a better shot at a happier life than most people who randomly build their social circle out of their social instincts. To paraphrase this, people who have personality similar to yours are more likely to agree with you, share your interests, and empathize with you. This can lead to a post-childhood nurturing that is almost impossible to attain by most of the adults involved in their monotonous lives.
